\part{Introduction}

Zeke is a portable operating system mostly targetted for ARM
processors.\footnote{Zeke is portable to at least in a sense of portability
    between different ARM cores and architectures.}
Zero Kernel, as it was originally known, is a tiny kernel implementation that
was originally targeted for ARM Corex-M microcontrollers. The reason to start
this project was that most of RTOSes available at the time for M0 feeled less
or more bloated for very simple applications. Secondly I found architectures
based on ARMv6-M to be quite challenging and interesting platforms for
RTOS/kernel development, especially when ARMv6-M is compared to ARMv7-M used
in M4 core or any Cortex-A cores using real ARM architectures.

One of the original goals of Zero Kernel was to make it CMSIS-RTOS compliant
where possible, as some concepts of Zeke were not actually CMSIS compliant
from the begining. However the scope of the project shifted pretty early and
the kernel is no longer CMSIS compatible at any level. Currently Zeke is
moving towards POSIX-like system and its user space is taking a Unix-like
shape. Nowadays Zeke is a bit bloatty when compared to the original standard
of a bloated OS but I claim Zeke is still quite tightly integrated system,
compared to any other Unix-like OS implementation.

Figure \ref{figure:zeke} illustrates architectural layers of the operating
system. Scope of Zeke project is to implement a portable
Unix-like\footnote{The project is aiming to implement the core set of kernel
    features specified in \ac{POSIX} standard.} operating system from
scratch\footnote{At least almost from scratch, some functionality is derived
from BSD kernels as well as some libraries are taken from other sources.} that
is optimized for ARM architectures and is free of legacy.

In addition to portability another long standing goal has been configurability
and adjustable footprint of the kernel binary as well as the whole OS image.
This is achieved by modular kernel architecture and static compile time
configuration. Like for example \ac{HAL} selection is already almost fully
locked at compilation time.

\begin{figure}
  \includegraphics[width=10cm]{pics/zeke}
  \centering
  \caption{Zeke: a Portable Operating System.}
  \label{figure:zeke}
\end{figure}

\input{abbrv.tex}
